[fire crackling]
[inhales]
[exhales]
[grunting]
You did good.
[man] Bueno.
You're one of us now.
One of hers.
You belong to Santa Nucifera,
and you must honor her wishes
to seal the deal.
W-What do I do?
[man] Say a prayer to her.
Now, open your mouth.
[grunting]
[gulps]
[grunts]
[man] Kill him.
[grunting]
[grunts]
-[screams]
-[grunts]
[man screaming]
Uh... Was that supposed to happen?
Bring him back to me.
[boy] I promise to confess my sins,
do my penance and not sin again.
In Jesus' name, amen.
[indistinct chatter]
[grunts]
[groans]
Hey! Cabrón!
Stop, thief!
Hallelujah! A crime!
[panting]
Hey! Stop!
[grunting]
[grunting continues]
[gasps]
[grunts]
[whimpers]
[chuckles]
[gasps]
Boo.
[screams]
-[thud]
-[groans]
[whimpers]
[screams]
[gasps]
[approaching footsteps]
Cut it out, hooligan!
Sleepers get stupefied!
That makes no sense,
like everything
that comes out of your mouth.
[grunting]
[groans]
You, mister,
you know what we do to spies?
I'm not a spy.
You know what we do to liars?
OK, OK! I'm a spy! I'm a spy!
Liar.
But not for nobody else. Just me.
Well, "me," I'm Isabela.
The panzón sucking air
over there is Jesus.
I suck so much air.
And you are?
My name is Domingo.
I been watching you.
I want to join your fighting school.
I want to train like you.
[both laugh]
[Jesus] Good one, frijolito.
Go on home.
Ain't got none.
It's not our call, Jesus.
So, let's hear what Sifu says.
[buzzing]
[buzzing continues]
Patience.
Remember water.
Wu wei.
Be the gentle rain, not the angry wave.
What is soft is strong.
Let go of anger.
This Chinese orchid holds much medicine
when mixed with this special jow.
[scoffs] Jow's such a waste.
All that booze
and you can't drink any of it.
[chuckles]
Add water and cactus
and make a paste
for your brother's stings.
[clattering]
Oh, yeah. Uh...
About the kid, he's um...
Because we thought--
You know, maybe, you see, that he...
That is, we...
Jesus, have you gathered
the fruit for dinner?
[scoffs] Have I?
[chuckles] Have I?
[chuckles] No.
But I will.
Soon.
Now?
OK.
I'll go.
[Isabela] Man,
Silencio is not good at bees.
What kind of name is Silencio?
[Sifu] A silent one.
What is your name?
Huh? Uh... Domingo.
It-It means Sunday.
Hmm.
I've been watching you!
Uh... I mean, you know that.
All of you. I want--
Some see Sunday as
the first day of the week.
Others say it is the last.
What do you say?
Uh... I don't know.
I want to be the first.
Or do I want to be the last?
Which one should I be?
An interesting question.
Perhaps, one day,
you will find a most interesting answer.
-[pump creaking]
-[grunting]
[groans]
I-I don't get it.
Push the handle down, lift the handle up.
Nothing here works like it's supposed to.
Why do I always have to pick the fruits?
"Oh, please go pick the fruits, fat boy."
Does he have any idea
how hard my belly makes climbing?
It makes it hard!
[scoffs] Treat me like a slave.
I don't even like mangoes.
[gasps]
I forgot about you.
Time to get... stupefied.
[sighs] So, what do you think
about the kid?
I know we have enough mouths
to feed, but...
Sifu took us in, gave us a home.
Maybe we can return the favor.
Damn.
[slurping and belching]
[slurping continues]
Sorry.
I guess I was hungry.
It's good, huh?
So, Domingo,
have you found an answer to your question?
[sighs] I don't think so.
I mean,
there are lots of Sundays, aren't there?
So, it depends where you come in,
whether it's the first day or the last,
or just some day in between.
First and last don't really mean
what we think they do, do they?
So, the question isn't,
"Am I first or last?",
it's...
[sighs] I guess
I don't know what it is yet.
And that is a very good answer.
So, you'll let me train with you?
[knocking on gate]
Hi! Can I help you, Officer Garcia?
I'm looking for a young thief.
Um... I haven't seen anyone like that.
Boy, about 12.
He was last seen wearing
a fútbol jersey and shorts.
[grunts] Ow! Hey!
-[bush rustling]
-Nope, haven't seen him. Good night!
[grunts]
What did you take?
Who, me? I'm innocent!
Fine. A mango.
[chuckles] Oh, man.
We have so many mangoes.
And from now on,
promise me you'll only steal from us, OK?
Come on.
Grand theft mango.
How come nothing big
ever happens in this town?
-[banging on door]
-[man] Hold up, I'm coming. Damn.
[sighs]
What's this?
New assignment.
-I didn't ask--
-Not the kind you ask for.
It's like that, is it, Larry?
I don't know what it's like.
I only know what it is.
That a joke?
Because it was almost good.
You laugh it up
when you're south of the border, amigo.
Something brewing down there.
Could be, you make it out OK;
could be, you come home in a body bag.
I know my preference.
How they gonna send a DEA agent
to the only town in Mexico
who ain't got no drugs?
When I leave?
[scoffs] You're already gone.
That soon, huh?
"Bi-national task force."
Smells like bullshit.
I'm surprised you can smell anything
over that jungle stink.
It's Hai Karate cologne, Larry.
Your wife loves it.
Just tell her I expect dinner on the table
when I get home.
Who was it?
Your husband.
[door opens]
[panting]
[grunting]
[whimpers]
Shh-shh-shh.
-Silencio!
-[screams]
[gasps]
[panting]
Hmm.
You want to tell that mocoso
his breakfast is gonna get cold?
You can tell him if you can find him.
I ain't seen him.
Hmm.
[Isabela] Sifu Chiu,
did you send him away?
No.
What did you do?
Quiet Man, we're talking to you.
"Annoying"? Man, bro...
[scoffs] We'll be back.
-Where we going?
-To do the right thing.
[grunts]
[Isabela] Selfish!
[man] See anything?
[sighs] Aye.
If he didn't make it to San Simon,
he's dead in the desert.
When we get into town, we'll find out.
No one goes back until we find him.
Entiendes?
-[pump creaking]
-[water sloshing]
Have you returned, Domingo?
[water splashes]
[gulping continues]
[gasps]
So thirsty.
[grunts]
[growls]
This is no place for you.
Go away.
Hungry.
Thirsty.
Drink your fill, then go.
[snarls]
[Chiu exhales]
[roars]
[bones cracking]
[snarls]
[grunts]
[thud]
[snarls]
[grunting]
[gasps]
How did you find me?
[inhales deeply]
[exhales]
[grunting]
-[cartilage cracking]
-[groans]
It would appear one of us
is out of Sundays.
[inhales deeply]
[exhales]
[grunting]
[roars]
-[mariachi music blaring]
-[man hollers]
"Bi-national task force," my black ass.
Shit.
[indistinct chatter]
Police station!
Where's the police sta-- Damn.
Hey, how do you say "police" in Mexican?
[chuckles] There's no such thing.
As police?
As that language.
"Cerdo."
"Cerdo" is Mexican for cop.
Thanks.
Cerdos!
Yo, can someone point me to the cerdos?
I-I got to chat up some cerdos!
Where do you think he is?
What?
I said, where do you think he is?
How should I know?
[scoffs] Fine.
Let's think about this.
If you were sent packing with your tail
between your legs, where would you go?
[wrench clicking]
Hey. I wanted to, you know, say sorry.
Hey, cabrón!
Are you gonna buy
or just scare away my customers?
[munching]
Hey! Put that down!
[grunting]
[bones cracking]
[roars]
[whimpers]
Get off me! Get the--
[snarling]
[screams]
Hey! Policía!
[tires screech]
There he is! Get him!
[civilians yelling]
-[gunfire continues]
-[woman screams]
[grunts]
Holy shit.
[Garcia] Policía.
Put your gun down!
Be cool! I'm a cerdo!
What?
[gunfire continues]
[grunting]
[grunts]
Are you crazy?
[clattering]
[coughing]
You have news.
Sí.
Jaimito... blew himself to pieces,
swallowed gasolina, lit a match.
And the powder?
Gone.
My men?
Dead.
[inhales sharply]
So...
you're the only one left...
to punish.
No, Balde! No!
Poor Domingo.
What just happened?
I don't know.
I don't want to know.
No, no, no!